Install Ubuntu 18.04. Always use UEFI when avalible. Create efi partition (~650 MB), create root partition and mount it on / (~500 GB, or at least 300 GB), create SWAP (optional, twice as big as RAM).

Open "Software & Updates" and add check all official repositories and install proprietary drivers if needed.

If laptop, install WIFI drivers. Check rltwifi_new (Realtek drivers):
git clone https://github.com/lwfinger/rtlwifi_new.git

Update the system:
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade

Install utilities for compiling from source:
sudo apt install linux-headers-generic build-essential git

Install tweaks and dconf-editor:
sudo apt install gnome-tweak-tool dconf-editor

Install Gnome extensions: AlternateTab, Caffeine, Clipboard Indicatior, Drop Down Terminal, Impatience, Screenshot tool, Show desktop from overview, system-monitor, Top Panel Workspace Scroll, wallpaper changer:
sudo apt install chrome-gnome-shell
sudo apt-get install gir1.2-cogl-1.0 gir1.2-gtop-2.0 gir1.2-networkmanager-1.0  (system-monitor)


Some changes to shell: open dconf-editor, go to org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock and explore the properties.

Install a Latex distribution (takes time, 4GB) and Texmaker:
sudo apt install texlive-full texmaker

Delete Amazon app and things like that:
sudo apt purge ubuntu-web-launchers

Install restricted extras:
sudo apt install ubuntu-restricted-extras

Add Nautilus type ahead:
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:lubomir-brindza/nautilus-typeahead
sudo apt dist-upgrade
nautilus -r

Copy .bashrc and .inputrc files from backup. Also must install:
sudo apt install cowsay fortune-mod

Download and install anaconda3. Remember adding the path in .bashrc.

Install pip, thefuck and tcsh:
conda install pip
pip install thefuck

Install python 2.7 just in case:
conda create --name py2 python=2.7 numpy matplotlib

Install IRAF from the debian repositories, along with the debian astronomy packages. 
sudo apt install astro-all
sudo apt install iraf python3-pyraf
The ds9 binaries can be downloaded from the dao website:
http://ds9.si.edu/site/Download.html
To install them, simply copy the ds9 file to /usr/bin/
Alternatively, the astro-iraf package is on testing, along with the astro-all=2.0 package. It may be easier simply adding testing to the source list and install everything (keep in mind that ds9 has to be version 8 or higher, and therefore might be easier simply also install the binaries manually) using:
sudo apt install astro-all=2.0
Download binaries for x11IRAF and install them (using tcsh) or compile them from source (last resource). https://github.com/iraf-community/x11iraf
sudo apt-get install tcsh libxss1 lib32z1 lib32ncurses5 libbz2-1.0:i386 libxmu6:i386

(This is no longer necessary as there is an official debian package) Install IRAF. This can be IRAF 2.16v from NOAO or the community version (possibly harder to install but better).
For the community version: download the latest stable build in the IRAF-community github repository.
sudo apt-get install tcsh libxss1 lib32z1 lib32ncurses5 libbz2-1.0:i386 libxmu6:i386
Follow the documentation to install IRAF.
Download binaries for x11IRAF and install them (using tcsh) or compile them from source (last resource). https://github.com/iraf-community/x11iraf
Download binaries for ds9 (do not use version 8 or higher).
Download more IRAF packages. (The extern folder in the IRAF directory still has the installation script. However, it seems that NOAO has dropped development. Finding a mirror or compiling from source seems to be the only way).












